---
title: "Chapter 1 - Introduction"
book: "workspaces-assemblies"
chapter: 1
start_page: 20
end_page: 21
---

# Introduction

We are very excited to introduce the next evolution of the OneStream Extended Finance Platform, the Workspace. At first glance, this might just seem like a more intuitive way to organize dashboards and all their components, but Workspaces do much more than that. Workspaces bring together historically distinct application objects, such as Cube Views and data management objects, while also introducing new development concepts to OneStream with Assemblies and Assembly Services. My OneStream education journey has involved many trial-and-error sessions while attempting to tackle various use cases over the course of my job. My approach to retaining different concepts is to create little “How To...” documents with snippets describing the issue to be solved, the steps to solve it, and a detailed screenshot walkthrough of the various screens and settings to accomplish the mission. I hope you find this approach helpful in your journey to understand the new Workspaces and everything that comes with them. Although the OneStream Advanced Reporting and Dashboards book from OneStream Press is not a prerequisite for understanding Workspaces, it provides a detailed understanding of all the components within dashboards. It was written to teach the intricacies of designing and configuring dashboards to make robust user experiences that meet the needs of your user community. Since all of these concepts are still valid, we won’t be diving deep into these topics again, but will instead focus on how the introduction of Workspaces enhances a developer’s ability to customize the user experience.

## Who Is This Book For?

The goal of this book is to help you get a solid understanding of Workspaces and where they fit into your OneStream journey. From experienced OneStream developers to new users and new developers, this book will guide you to make the most out of your OneStream investment. For experienced developers, you need to understand the transition from pre-Workspace development concepts to post-Workspace development concepts, where and why you should embrace using Workspaces for future development, and how to convert your current environment. For developers just beginning their OneStream journey, this book explains how and why all the Workspace components fit together to provide a best-practice approach to building your OneStream application. For new OneStream users, this book will introduce you to the fundamentals of Workspaces, guiding you through the basics of dashboard organization and how contained solutions can streamline your workflow. You’ll learn the importance of collaboration and how enhanced security measures ensure your application development remains protected. Through step-by-step instructions and practical examples, you will gain a solid foundation to start building and managing Workspaces effectively. Experienced users and developers will find this book invaluable in delving deeper into advanced topics such as Assembly Services. We will showcase how these new features can revolutionize your existing development processes and significantly enhance your overall productivity. Understanding these concepts will enable you to leverage the full potential of Workspaces in your projects. Additionally, we will explore the critical aspect of moving from development to production (Dev to Prod) and provide best practices and strategies to ensure smooth transitions. By understanding how Workspaces integrate with the OneStream platform, you will be equipped with the knowledge to implement this powerful tool effectively, driving greater efficiency and success in your organization’s financial operations. In the subsequent sections, we will cover a range of topics, from setting up your Workspace to managing complex components like Assemblies and dynamic dashboards. Each chapter is crafted to guide you step by step, offering practical examples and best practices to help you navigate the OneStream landscape. You’ll learn how to create new Workspaces, configure settings, and navigate the interface with ease. Join us as we delve into the world of OneStream Workspaces, exploring their potential to transform your development processes and drive greater efficiency in your organization’s financial operations. This journey will equip you with the skills and knowledge to harness the full power of OneStream Workspaces, making you an adept and confident user. Let’s get started!
